And finally, we have a ViewResolver.
The ViewResolver is a little bit different because the
TemplateResolver looked up the actual template.
The ViewResolver just takes whichever template was loaded
and returns that based off the name, so they kind of work in conjunction.
I will tell you now, though,
that the viewResolver.setOrder that you can see in
the middle of our method here,
that has to be before the JSP page in this example for it to work.
So we're going to change the order of our JSP viewResolver to 1, and this to 0.
If not, it'll look for JSP's name this way.
It is possible to configure them to work together,
but it's kind of outside the scope of this course,
and specifically this example.
Let's add our ViewResolver, and our template page,
and any other configuration we need to to run the rest of this demo now.
To add the viewResolver for the Thymeleaf pages,
I'm going to go ahead and give myself a little bit of whitespace
below the ViewResolver we have for JSP pages,
and I'm going to paste that code in there.
I've already got it written.
The thymeleafResolver, as we mentioned earlier,
is real simple because it calls the TemplateEngine.
One thing I am going to change, though,
is you'll notice how line 57 and line 65 in my code
are both set to an order of 0, I want to change that setOrder on line 57 to 1.
This will make it to where the thymeleafResolver pulls our page up first.
And as I mentioned earlier, and I'm going to mention again,
we are currently breaking the JSP functionality of our
application to show you the thymeleafResolver.
It's outside the scope of this course to have both Thymeleaf and
JSPs working together in the same application,
and it's really not a common occurrence.
Most people don't do it that way.
They usually choose one or the other.
Now that we have that set up,
I want to go out to our WEB‑INF folder and create the views
directory that's being called by our templateResolver.
So I'm going to right‑click on WEB‑INF and say New, Directory, and
I'm going to type this as views. Inside of here, I want to create a
new HTML page. So I'm going to say New, HTML 5, and I'm going to name
this thyme.html, and hit Enter.
It comes up with a very basic HTML page for us. To make this a Thymeleaf
page, I'm actually going to just replace the contents inside of here and
talk through the two pieces that we have.
We have a HTML namespace on line 2 that's really an xml namespace that
HTML is utilizing of thymeleaf.org, and we can now use those elements
that that namespace defines as we have on line 8 where we're calling the
th:text with the message in there. So this will pull out a message that
we haven't yet defined.
You'll notice that it's currently read on line 8 because it
doesn't know where that's coming from,
and that's because we have nothing to route to this page yet.
Let's go up to our controllers, and specifically our
greeting controller, and open it up.
And let's add in a request to actually load this page and display that
element that it's stopping on telling us that there's nothing to find
calling it. I'm going to actually copy that greeting that we already have
and paste that down below here, and change this to work for the thyme
page that we just created.
Call it thyme,
and we're going to return to that thyme.html page that we just made,
and let's just change this to Hello Thymeleaf.
Save that. Now we have all of the pieces together
in our application to run this.
Let's exit full screen, start up our server, and go
see what this now looks like.
Here's our browser page,
just like we would expect it to show up. The difference is now we can come
up here and type in thyme, and it will go through and pull that page out
for us and show us the Hello Thymeleaf that we just added into that
message property. It works pretty well.
I will tell you, though, that if we back up right now and hit our greeting link,
it's going to break.
We're going to get that 500 error.
So I'm going to back out the changes that we made for Thymeleaf.
I wanted to show you how to integrate it, and you can see it,
you can use everything that we have already taught you with
JSPs works with Thymeleaf pages,
but the two just aren't configured to run alongside of one another.
But you can see how Thymeleaf works,
how it's really lightweight, it's really centered around HTML 5, and it doesn't have some of the nuances that JSP pages have in there.